---
description: An overview of brainrender's scene class
---

# Scene class

The `Scene` class is at the core of `brainrender`. Most of your interactions with `brainrender` will have to do with using `Scene` to add elements to your rendering. 

{% hint style="success" %}
This is an overview of what `Scene` does and how to use it. For more details check the [automatically generated docs](../autogenerated-docs/brainrender-autodocs/scene.md)!
{% endhint %}

### Creating a Scene

When creating an instance of `Scene` for the first time, you have the opportunity to specify several parameters that will determine what your `scene` looks like and what kind of data you will be able to add to it.  

{% hint style="info" %}
**Using different atlases**

Among the parameters that Scene takes is `atlas`, this argument **let's you specify which brain atlas to use for your renderings** \(by default it's the Allen brain atlas\). The easiest way to use a different atlas is to pass the name of a [brainglobe](https://github.com/brainglobe/bg-atlasapi) atlas, `brainrender` will then download and use the desired atlas. Alternatively you can specify a custom `Atlas` class to support an atlas of your creation. Then just pass the custom class as an argument to `Scene`.
{% endhint %}



### Adding actors to Scene

`Scene` comes with a large number of methods that allow you to add elements \(actors\) to your visualization. These methods include \(but are not limited to\):

* `add_brain_regions` to add brain regions' meshes to your scene
* `add_cells` and `add_cells_from_file` to add colored speheres at the location of labelled cells
* `add_neurons` e.g. to add MouseLight neurons to your scene
* `add_actor` and `add_from_file` can be used to add a `vedo` actor or to load a mesh from a `.obj` or `.stl` file.
* many more.. 

You can check [the automatically generated docs ](../autogenerated-docs/brainrender-autodocs/scene.md#scene)for a list of all these methods, many of which are also used in the [examples](../overview/examples.md). 



### Multi Scenes

Sometimes you'd want to look at a lot of data at once. However adding too many actors to your scene might results in a cluttered view which is not very useful. An alternative is to create a multi-scene. When doing so you can display multiple scenes side by side in the same rendering window. Importantly, the scenes' cameras are linked so that as you interact with one scene, it will update the view of the others facilitating the comparison across scenes. 

To use multi scenes you can use the [`DualScene`](../autogenerated-docs/brainrender-autodocs/scene.md#dualscene) and [`MultiScene`](../autogenerated-docs/brainrender-autodocs/scene.md#multiscene) classes defined in `brainrender.scene`.

